---
title: Version 0.4.2 Released
date: 2022-06-22T20:48:57+03:00
group: releases
release: 0.4.2
---

## Fixed: Existing K8s Resources Getting Cleaned Up

K8s resources are tracked by a separate task per cluster in k8s-agent.

When configuring multiple clusters, resources associated with deployments might sometime disappear and re-appear.

The reason for this was that every time a cluster tracker restarted, it tried to clean old k8s resources, but cleaned up "old" resources from all clusters.

This was fixed by associating k8s resources with their `cluster_id`, as they were only associated with a `deployment_id` up until now.

The `cluster_id` property is exposed via API as well.

## Added: `create_namespace` Variable to Terraform Module

> Thanks to [@DuckInCyber](https://github.com/DuckInCyber) for reporting this issue!

When installing Platz using Terraform in an existing namespace, you can specify `create_namespace=false` in the main Terraform module.

## Added: `name_prefix` Variable to Terraform Modules

> Thanks to [@DuckInCyber](https://github.com/DuckInCyber) for reporting this issue!

Names such as IAM roles were generated in the `k8s-agent-role` and `chart-discovery` modules using the `k8s_namespace` variable.

However, this didn't allow for defining multiple roles using the same namespace when trying to install Platz on different clusters using the same namespace.

`name_prefix` is now used for this prefix.

Since `name_prefix` and `k8s_namespace` both default to `platz`, this has no effect on existing deployments.
