---
title: Version 0.3.0 Released
date: 2022-04-26T22:50:10+03:00
group: releases
release: 0.3.0
---

This release contains some big changes, it's highly recommended to backup before upgrading so you can downgrade in case something doesn't work correctly.

## Backend Changes

### Changed: Upgrading to Helm 3.8.2

This release upgrades Helm to 3.8 from 3.6.

The main effect is that OCI registries, now a stable feature in Helm, also behave differently than in Helm 3.6.

Previous versions allowed pushing Helm charts to any OCI-compatible repo, so authors could easily create one ECR repo and push both images and charts into it.

For example, you could find a repo named `shop` with tags like `shop-0.5.0` for an image and `chart-shop-0.5.0` for the corresponding chart.

Helm 3.8 doesn't support that behavior anymore. Instead, it derives the repo name automatically from `Chart.yml`. When pushing, a registry is mentioned and it implicitly hosts a repo with the chart name.

This doesn't affect pulling, so previously pushed charts aren't affected, but if you wish to upgrade Helm to 3.8 as well, you'd have to create a separate repo for charts.

### Changed: `-chart` and `-charts` Suffix to OCI Registries

As a result of the previous change, Platz now strips `-chart` and `-charts` suffixes from repo names.

For example, if you had a repo named `shop` before the upgrade, you can create a new repo named `shop-charts` to host Helm charts.

Both `shop` and `shop-charts` would map to the `Shop` kind, meaning all existing deployments can be upgraded to the new charts while being served from different repos.

### New: `env_id` and `env_name` in `platz` Values

When installing or upgrading, Platz adds two new values to the `platz` section: `env_id` and `env_name`, containing the env ID and name hosting the deployment.

### New: Cluster TLS Secret Name Configuration

Before this release all `Ingress` resources were created with a secret named `tls-wildcard`.

Clusters now contains a configuration for the TLS secret name that corresponds to their domain name.

### New: Auto-Add Users to Envs

When enabled, a new env setting lets new users be added to existing envs automatically.

This is disabled by default.

### New: Deployment Access Tokens

Access tokens, usually used to authenticate users in the frontend, can now also be used to authenticate deployments.

This change is at the API authentication code only, no tokens are actually created at this point. This feature would be completed at a later release.

### Changed: Env Name Uniqueness

Env names weren't enforced as unique until now.

Although this wasn't a problem as everything uses IDs under the hood, admins could still create several envs with the same name, which is very confusing in the frontend.

Env names are now enforced to be case-insensitive unique.

If an upgrade fails due to this, please rename or delete the rogue envs at the database level.

### Fixed: Secrets `updated_at` Not Updating

The `updated_at` property of secrets wasn't updated. This is now fixed.

## chart-ext Changes

### New: Ingress Section

Previous versions of chart-ext supported a `standard_ingress` feature. This looked like this:

```
apiVersion: platz.io/v1beta1
kind: Features
spec:
  standard_ingress: true
...
```

When `standard_ingress` was enabled for a chart, it meant the chart has an `ingress` section in its values and can create an `Ingress` resource when configured in the format created by default by `helm create` charts.

A new `apiVersion: platz.io/v1beta2` changes the format a bit. The previous `apiVersion: platz.io/v1beta1` will remain fully supported until `platz.io/v1` is stabilized.

The new version looks like this:

```
apiVersion: platz.io/v1beta2
kind: Features
spec:
  ingress:
    enabled: true
    hostname_format: Name
```

The `enabled: true` in the `ingress` section matches the previous `standard_ingress: true` flag.

`hostname_format` is a new optional property that specifies how to create the ingress hostname:

* `KindAndName` (the default previous behavior) creates a hostname using the deployment kind and name.
* `Name` uses only the deployment name.

For example, lets assume a deployment has the kind of `Shop` and is named `alexander`, then:

* `KindAndName` would generate `shop-alexander`
* `Name` would generate `alexander`

This feature is useful in cases where only one deployment uses an ingress, in which case the kind prefix can be removed.

## Helm Chart Changes

### New: `k8s-agent` with Multi-Account Support

In this release `task-runner` was renamed to `k8s-agent`.

The main reason is that the name was a bit confusing. `task-runner` was responsible for running tasks, but it was also Platz's agent for communicating with clusters, hence the new name.

But the `k8s-agent` rename is not the only change, as Platz now supports multiple `k8s-agent`s. This is useful when controlling clusters in multiple accounts. Then, instead of supporting a complicated `AssumeRole` configuration, you can simply run several `k8s-agent`s, each assuming a different role.

As a result, Platz's chart values now get a `k8sAgents` array. Each array element will create a separate statefulset with its own service account.

## UI Changes

### Fixed: Grafana Settings Wording

Grafan settings had some wrong description, this is now fixed.

Thanks to [@vmalloc](https://github.com/vmalloc) for this contribution!

### New: Secrets Screen

A new secrets screen was added to the env settings section.

It allows for creating, editing and deleting secrets, plus adding new secret categories.

## New: Terraform Modules

New Terraform modules have been created to ease the deployment of Platz directly from Terraform.

There are 3 modules hosted at [https://github.com/platzio/terraform-aws-platzio](https://github.com/platzio/terraform-aws-platzio):

* `modules/main` contains the main module, which creates a `helm_release` along with the required values.
* `modules/k8s-agent-role` creates an IAM role with the required permissions in an account to be controlled by a `k8s-agent`.
* `modules/chart-discovery` creates the necessary resources to discover Helm charts in ECR repos.

See the repo README for full usage details.
