---
title: Version 0.4.8 Released
date: 2022-11-30T14:12:57+0200
group: releases
release: 0.4.8
---

This version includes mostly bug fixes:

## Task failure/success output fix

*Thanks to @vmalloc for contributing this fix*

When running tasks, a failure prefix was added when tasks succeeded and not when they failed.

## Avoid refreshing credentials of disabled deployments

Disabled credentials are uninstalled from their clusters, so trying to refresh their credentials caused unnecessary errors as their namespaces didn't exist.

## k8s-agent will not exit on task failure anymore

k8s-agent exited with an error when a task failed. This happened because errors were propagated from the task runner loop instead of stopping after storing the error in the database.

## Release builds now have debug info and show full backtraces

*Thanks to @vmalloc for contributing this fix*

Backtraces in release mode ommitted many important function calls. Release builds now include full debug information.

## Fixed some charts missing when using ?in_use=true in API

*Thanks to @vmalloc for contributing this fix*

Helm charts returned by calling `/api/v2/helm-charts?in_use=true` didn't include charts with a `parsed_branch` value of `null`.

This might have happened when parsing a Helm chart version failed, in which case the branch is stored as `null`. The branch will now be stored as an empty string since this is equivalent to the `null` case (a Git branch name can't be empty), fixing the result of in use Helm charts.

## Added context to errors around Helm chart pulling

In some task failure cases it was hard to understand the cause of the failure. To help with that, a context was added to `anyhow` failures to show which stage failed while running Helm (creating pod, waiting for pod output, etc.)

## Handle disconnections from control plane when running task pods

*Thanks to @vmalloc for contributing this fix*

Some tasks failed running because of disconnections from the control plane while waiting for Helm pods to complete running.

In some cases a task completed successfully but was marked as failed because Platz couldn't get the pod status correctly.

This was fixed by using the `kube` crate watcher instead of polling the pod status directly.

## Fixed chart-discovery OOMKilled

When chart-discovery starts it scrubs all existing Helm charts to verify their parsed tag is in sync with the current settings.

In large deployments this caused an `OOMKilled` event right when chart-discovery starts up since it loaded all Helm charts to memory.

This was fixed by scrubbing Helm charts in smaller chunks.

## Fixed frontend crash when a chart had no features

Charts with no features caused a crash, this was fixed.

## Fixed to show registry icons when no icon is defined in chart features

When adding chart icons as a chart-ext feature, the previous behavior of showing the icon by the registry setting was accidentally removed.

This is now fixed to prefer the icon defined in chart-ext, then fall back to the registry setting.

## Fix undefined error in findCollectionDependencies

*Thanks to @vmalloc for contributing this fix*

Charts with no `values_ui` chart-ext caused the frontend to crash in `findCollectionDependencies`.

This was fixed, along with adding logs to catch similar errors in the future.
