---
slug: v0.4.7
title: Version 0.4.7 Released
tags: [releases]
---

<!-- truncate -->

## 🕸 New Branding

Platz has a new logo and mascot designed by [Rotem Yaari](https://github.com/vmalloc)! 🎉

## Deployment icons as chart extension

Deployment icons can now be set in the chart extension features:

```yaml
apiVersion: platz.io/v1beta2
kind: Features
spec:
  display:
    icon:
      font_awesome: spider-web
```

Note: Setting Helm registry icons using the frontend will be removed in the future.

## Ingress classes

Clusters now have a setting for ingress class name.

When set, the ingress class name is injected as `ingress.className` in the chart values.

Ingress classes allow setting an explicit ingress controller to use for Platz deployments, or migrating to a new ingress controller one a per-env basis.

## Fixed: Custom resources with no hooks

Custom resources with no lifecycle hooks were left in the `Creating` status since no deployment was changing their status.

This was fixed to mark them as `Ready` when no lifecycle hooks need to be called.

## `chart-ext` is now an independent crate

The `chart-ext` crate has been moved out of the backend and is now published at [https://crates.io/crates/platz-chart-ext](https://crates.io/crates/platz-chart-ext).

This is in preparation for more integrations around chart extensions, such as a CLI and VS Code extension.

## Fixed: Global admin env permissions

_Thanks to @vmalloc for reporting this issue_

Global admins were unable to see or change envs in the frontend if their permissions were removed, or didn't exist to begin with.

This was fixed so that global admins can see and admin any env in Platz.

## Fixed: Show deployment resource errors in resource pages

_Thanks to @ayalash for reporting this issue_

Custom resource errors were visible in the resource list but no in the custom resource page.

Custom resource status and any errors are now displayed in the resource page as well.
