---
slug: v0.3.5
title: Version 0.3.5 Released
tags: [releases]
---

This release contains fixes and changes to the Helm chart and the Terraform modules.

<!-- truncate -->

## Helm Chart Changes

### New: Support for LetsEncrypt with cert-manager

If you have [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) installed, the chart can create an `Issuer` and `Certificate` resources for you:

``` yaml
# In values.yaml
certManager:
  certificate:
    create: false
  issuer:
    create: false
    name: ""
    email: ""
    kind: Issuer
    group: cert-manager.io
```

When `certManager.issuer.create` is `true`, an `Issuer` resource will be created using [LetsEncrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/)'s production server.

`certManager.issuer.name` is optional and uses the chart name if not provided.

`certManager.issuer.email` is required and will be used to register the issuer.

When `certManager.certificate.create` is `true`, a `Certificate` resource will be created using the `secretName` passed into `ingress.tls[0].secretName`.

It's also possible to pass `certManager.issuer.name` without `certManager.issuer.create`. This would use an existing `Issuer`. If you set `certManager.issuer.kind` to `ClusterIssuer` an existing `ClusterIssuer` would be used.

### Fixed: Resource Definitions

This version adds a `resources` section for each container.

If you're running on a very small node, such as Minikube, you can override `resources` to be empty for experimenting with Platz. It's recommended to leave the resources as they are in production.

## Terraform Modules

### New: `ingress` Variable

The previous Helm chart had two variables for defining an ingress: `domain` and `tls_secret_name`.

If `domain` was defined, and ingress was created. If `tls_secret_name` was defined, a `tls` section was added to the ingress using the `domain` variable:

``` hcl
# v0.3.4
module "platz" {
  domain          = "platz.example.com"
  tls_secret_name = "tls-secret"
  ...
}
```

The module now contains an `ingress` variable grouping everything related to the ingress, which includes cert-manager support and `className`:

``` hcl
# v0.3.5
module "platz" {
  ingress = {
    host       = "platz.example.com"
    class_name = "nginx"
    tls = {
      secret_name        = "tls-cert"
      create_certificate = true
      create_issuer      = true
      issuer_email       = "acme@example.com"
    }
  }
  ...
}
```

### Changed: chart-discovery Outputs

The output names of the chart-discovery module have been changed to match the inputs expected by the main module.

Before the change the main module block looked like this:

``` hcl
# v0.3.4
module "platz" {
  ...
  chart_discovery = {
    iam_role_arn = module.platz_chart_discovery.iam_role_arn
    queue_name   = module.platz_chart_discovery.sqs_queue_name
    queue_region = module.platz_chart_discovery.sqs_queue_region
  }
}
```

The `sqs_queue_name` and `sqs_queue_region` outputs have been named to `queue_name` and `queue_region` correspondingly, allowing the module resource to be used as an input directly:

``` hcl
# v0.3.5
module "platz" {
  ...
  chart_discovery = module.platz_chart_discovery
}
```
