---
slug: v0.4.9
title: Version 0.4.9 Released
tags: [releases]
---

<!-- truncate -->

## User API tokens

*Thanks @ayalash for this contribution!*

The most exciting feature for this release: **User API tokens** 🎉.

This allows users to create API tokens and use them in API calls, and in the soon to be released CLI.

## Prometheus metrics

*Thanks @ayalash for this contribution!*

Another major feature is Prometheus metrics exposed by the backend.

The backend now exports two metrics:

* `platz_deployment_task_status_counter` counts how many tasks are in each status, with a `task_status` label.
* `platz_deployment_status_counter` counts deployment statuses by name and cluster using the labels `deployment_kind`, `deployment_status` and `cluster_name`.

## Added retries for helm task pod creation/deletion

Helm task pods sometimes failed to create due to network errors.

To resolve this, creation and deletion of Helm pods are now retried several times before marking the task as failed.

## Added SIGTERM and SIGINT handlers

*Thanks @vmalloc for this contribution!*

## Sort API v2 of deployment tasks by creation

*Thanks @ayalash for this contribution!*

Deployment tasks are now sorted by `created_at` when returned by the API. This helps API users to query for recent tasks instead of loading the entire history for certain deployments.

## Switched from rusoto to official aws-sdk

The backend now uses the official Rust AWS SDK instead of `rusoto`.

## Fixed some charts missing in initial frontend load

*Thanks @vmalloc for this contribution!*

Some charts were missing when the frontend was initially loaded charts using `in_use=true` query.

This caused the frontend to miss potential upgrade charts and not show the upgrade icon until all charts were loaded for each deployment kind.

## Add 'active_only' and 'created_from' filtering for deployment tasks

*Thanks @ayalash for this contribution!*

New filters are now available for `/api/v2/deployment-task`:

* `active_only=true` will return only active tasks.
* `created_from` takes an ISO8601 date-time and returns tasks that were created after this date.

## API for getting the backend version

*Thanks @ayalash for this contribution!*

A new API `/api/v2/self` returns version information about the backend.

## Ignore ECR events with an empty image_tag

Some ECR images might be pushed with an empty tag.

Since this is allowed, Platz simply ignores these images and would continue inspecting Helm chart artifacts, while ignoring anything that's pushed without a tag.

## Upgraded base image v4 (Helm 3.11.0 and latest Ubuntu)

The base image for running Helm tasks and the backend has been updated to the latest Ubuntu and Helm 3.11.0.

This matches the current `ubuntu-latest` in GitHub actions.

## Fixed k8s-agent crash when cluster discovery fails

Cluster discovery might fail sometimes due to network issues, which crashed k8s-agent.

k8s-agent will now retry cluster discovery on the next attempt and not crash when this happens.

## Added an opt-in backup cronjob

The Helm chart and Terraform modules now include an option for installing Platz with a built-in backup cronjob.

The cronjob uses the existing database credentials and runs every hour, saving a full database dump to an S3 bucket.

A new Terraform module creates the S3 bucket and all necessary IAM resources to grant the backup job its necessary credentials.

## Multi-arch support (AMD64 and ARM64)

All Platz images are now built for both `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64` targets.
