---
title: Version 0.4.3 Released
date: 2022-06-27T19:25:00+03:00
group: releases
release: 0.4.3
---

## Fixed --admin-email option

The `--admin_email` option was renamed to `--admin-email`.

The previous option was broken when used through the Helm chart or Terraform modules.

## Chart ingress.hosts renamed to ingress.rules

This change is to allow `rules` to be specified similarly to how an `Ingress` resource looks like. Each rule `host` is now optional, allowing for a catch-all ingress.

This only changes the chart of Platz itself, the `ingress` injected while installing charts stays the same to match the commonly used schema created by default with `helm create`.

When migrating from previous versions, convert an ingress that looks like this:

```yaml
ingress:
  create: true
  className: nginx
  hosts:
    - host: platz.pizza.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - platz.pizza.io
      secretName: pizza-platz-tls
```

to:

```yaml
ingress:
  create: true
  className: nginx
  rules: # <--
    - host: platz.pizza.io
      paths:
        - path: /
          pathType: Prefix
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - platz.pizza.io
      secretName: pizza-platz-tls
```

## Use PLATZ_OWN_URL for OIDC callback

For generating the OIDC callback URL, the backend used to use proxy headers, which didn't work in some cases.

The backend now uses the `PLATZ_OWN_URL` environment variable. This environment variable is generated automatically in Platz's Helm chart when setting an Ingress according to the `host` and `tls` settings.

## `ownUrlOverride` in Helm chart

The Helm chart now contains a top-level variable `ownUrlOverride` for overriding the automatic value created for `PLATZ_OWN_URL`.

This is useful when Platz is installed behind a reverse proxy that also serves TLS, which generates an `http://` URL instead of `https://`.

## Fixed site admin to always be an env admin

Site admins should be able to have permissions for everything, however in many places they can't perform operations without adding permissions for themselves. This is useful for testing how permissions look like for other users, and of course to avoid mistakes.

However, admins should be able to manage users for all envs to avoid being locked out, so site admins are now also env admins without adding this permission explicitly.

Site admins can still be removed from envs if they don't want to see those envs in the env switcher.

## Fixed chart-discovery crash when chart download fails

Thanks to [@vmalloc](https://github.com/vmalloc) for reporting this issue!

The chart-discovery worker could crash in cases where it couldn't download a chart from an OCI repo.

Instead of crashing, the worker now stores the chart with an indicative error.

## Fixed wrong SQS queue prefix in chart-discovery Terraform module

Thanks to [@vmalloc](https://github.com/vmalloc) for reporting [this issue](https://github.com/platzio/terraform-aws-platzio/issues/3)!

The chart-discovery Terraform module used `k8s_namespace` as a prefix for the SQS queue it creates.

This is now fixed to use `name_prefix`.

## Frontend changes

* "Create Deployment" button moved into an "Actions" menu
* When an admin doesn't have permissions to any env, show a link to the admin section.
* Add a link from the env admin page to env user management.

## Backend image size

The backend Docker image size was reduced from ~2GB to ~500MB by compiling Platz in release mode.
